you answer 21 questions. The candidate lost marks because of spelling mistakes. (principles ) Main issues in listening Note completion in part 1 and 4 – labelling in part 2 – flow chart completion in part 3 Section 1: you answered 6 questions Section 2: you answered 6 questions. Section 3: you answered 7 questions. Section 4: you answered 2 questions.
--------------------
For labelling read the instruction very carefully and check the word limit. Identify where the numbers start and finish. Understand the context (listen carefully at the beginning as the speaker will give you the context) which will help you to follow the talk. Look at the gaps and see if you can guess what you are labelling. Pay attention to the words like (definitely, quite likely and …) look at two questions at once. Note completion : Read the form completely to get the background and read the words before and after the gap. Some maybe paraphrased and some maybe the exact words (names, numbers ….). Try to predict what it asks for grammar (noun, adjective,) and meaning (paraphrased). you also need to recognize the letter of English Alphabet well so you can write the letters you hear quickly. Flowchart: The candidate should read the instructions more carefully and check the word limit. Read the flow chart before listening to the audio to get the gist and underline the keywords. Predict the answers (meaning and part of speech). Make sure the spellings are correct, as incorrect spellings will lead to loss of marks. By the way, don't forget to take notes it will help you answer the question. The candidate answered many questions incorrectly. It is suggested that s/he work on general English and then attempt the test in a couple of months. The candidate needs to familiarize herself with different question types in the IELTS. This will help them answer more questions. General English classes can also be recommended if candidate has enough time to prepare. Improve your listening skills by becoming an active listener. Listen to a variety of English language resources, such as podcasts, news reports and Ted talks, which will expose you to new vocabulary and different accents (you may not just hear British accents during the IELTS test recordings). Practice following conversation, making prediction and identifying the speakers ‘attitude and record specific information Book to be recommended: Vocabulary for ielts How to improve your listening (4.5-6 Macmillan) Cambridge book from 10 to 19

Reading
Reading (ISSUE)
you answered 25 questions. Main issue : Matching in part 1- sentence completion in part 2- true false questions in part 1 Section 1: you answered 8 out of 13 questions Section 2: you answered 8 out of 13 questions. Section 3: you answered 9 out of 14 questions.

Reading (REMEDY)
Matching: You need to find title for each paragraph. Never start with the question-first move to the passage skim it by reading the first/last two lines and write paragraph in your words. It helps you to get the main idea. Read the instructions carefully. Read the headings and find the Location keywords in each one and underline them. Scan the first paragraph and look for the keywords or synonyms. Go back to the Heading and check the meaning. Look around the LKW in the text and check to see if the passage is conveying the same message and the same TOPIC to the Heading. Choose the most suitable Heading and note it next to the paragraph. Scan the next paragraph. Repeat this procedure until you have scanned all the paragraphs. Transfer your answers to the answer sheet Sentence completion: Read the incomplete sentences first. Think about what word form (part of speech) can be used and try to predict the answer. Underline keywords and look at the words before and after the gap to locate information on the passage. scanning quickly and find the keyword and locate the answer True/False/Not given: Survey the text to get the main idea of the passage. Read the first question and find the keywords. Scan the text and find the keywords or synonyms in the text. Read the text carefully and decide if the statements are true/false/not given * The questions are IN ORDER so look for two questions at a time Get familiar with different types and techniques of reading questions. practice skimming and scanning. This will help them answer more questions Books to be recommended: How to improve your reading (6-7.5 Macmillan) Vocabulary for ielts Cambridge book from 10 to 19